                                       Assignment 1

To : Zaki Shaheen
From: Muhammad Hassan Maqsood
Date:07-July-2015
Subject: Meeting with Coeus Solutions GmbH's HR


Introduction

	The Purpose of writing this report is to give an overview of the session held between 5 freshly hired
	employees and the Bilal Iqbal (HR) of the Coeus Solutions GmbH. In this session, newly hired
	employees were briefed about the company's policies followed by a question/answer session at the
	end. Things that were discussed in this session comprises of the following things.

Supervisor

	In case of any query or problem the very first person to whom I have to report is Zaki Shaheen ­
	Head of Engineering at Coeus Solutions.

Problems:

	It was advised to contact with the official representatives for the best guidance according to the
	domain of the problem.

    ·  HR Related Problems

       Bilal Iqbal (HR) will be addressing any sort of problems that falls under his domain like
       applying for a leave, resignation, applying for loan, issues regarding EPF policies,
       increments and performance evaluations.

    ·  Accounts Related Issues

       Muhammad Muzaffar - Manager Accounts will be addressing problems like salary issues,
       payslips, bank related queries etc.

    ·  Operations Related Issues

       Issues related to booking of hall, need or change of of any stationary, system or anything
       required for work will be managed by Mr Zeeshan Ahmad - Manager Operations.

    ·  In case we don't get answers from the above contacts, it was advised to us to escalate our
       query to Muhammad Ahsan Naseem - Chief Operating Officer.

Benefits:

       Benefits are time and demand based, they can be customized according to the
       circumstances. Following benefits can be enjoyed while working with the Coeus Solutions.

    ·  Accidental medical coverage
    	In case of any unfortunate accidental emergency, the company will bear up to Rs.150,000/-

    · Maternity Coverage
        The amount to be covered in maternity coverage will be up to Rs 50,000/-

    · Wedding Allowance
        Company sponsors the wedding expenses according to the position in the company.
   	For the initial level at associate software engineer the amount is Rs 10,000/-

    · Referral Bonus per hire
        In case of recommending any employee that may get selected, the bonus per hire will
   	be up to Rs 10,000/- .

    · Increments
        Based on our performance and achievements on goals & targets defined by our
   	supervisor, we will get increment in every July.

    · Holidays
        Sick leaves that an employee can request are 8 working days per annum.
        Privilege leaves an employee can request are 18 working days per annum.

    · Performance Evaluation
   	Up till 1 basic salary is given as bonus every 6 months based on the performance
   	evaluation and rating assigned by the supervisor.

    · Sponsorship for Masters in Berlin
        An employee can be eligible to request for sponsorship study in Germany, Berlin
   	free of cost with minimum affiliation of 3 years with company.

    · EPF bonus:
        Company deducts 5% of the gross salary and saves it in a separate account which
        will be returned to the employee on the time of resignation with additional amount of
   	company's profit as well.

    · On-line Payments:
        Salaries will be transferred to the bank accounts in Standard Chartered bank with
        benefits of free bank to bank cash transformation services, Free cheque book, credit
        and debit cards with Ready line facility and no hidden charges.

    · Sports and Recreational activities
        Coeus is very keen in organizing sports activities like ludo, cricket, chess and fuse
        ball. Apart from sports activities, after every 15 days, a lunch is organized by the
        society that is a good way of keeping the employees fresh and energetic.

Common Queries:

    Some other common queries that were addressed comprised on the following things listed
    below.

    · Resignation
           	In case if an employee wants to resign from the company he must give the notice
           	with a time slack of least one month.

    ·   Applying For leave.
       	       To apply for leave we must user CSHR, a tool for marking leave and telling the
               supervisors automatically. In case of remote place or not having access to the CSHR,
               the employee can also inform HR to mark his absence.

    ·   Loan
               In order to get loan, the amount that can be granted depends upon the employee's
               EPF being collected up-till that time. The amount must be returned in the contracted
               time.

    ·   Over-time
               Company doesn't appreciate its employees to work over-time, however in case of any
               tight deadlines, we can work in over-time with a sponsored meal up-to Rs 350/-

Conclusion:

	To sum up, I have found the company's approach towards its freshly hired employees very
	optimistic and motivating. There are lot of learning opportunities that can be captured by new guns.
	Our all sort of queries were listened and addressed patiently in a clear way. The procedures that are
	being followed are very transparent like of applying for leave, requesting for re-evaluation of
	ratings or increment. At the end, I will summarize by saying that up till now my all hesitations have
	been addressed and I am looking forward to work with the company with passion and enthusiasm so
	that I can benefit to myself as well to the company efficiently.

